>> Speaker 1: For this, we're gonna
be in source in the server side,
source controllers, and
users.todo in the test.
And this is actually,
I'm gonna be doing this piece for
us.
>> Speaker 1: And
this test is gonna be responsible for
testing the users module.
So the users controller exposes
a couple express middleware.
If you're not familiar with express,
it's totally fine.
Just think these are just functions
that accept some special objects.
And I'll give you function that can
generate those objects for you.
So you shouldn't have to be too
concerned about how this all works.
But it exposes a couple of things that our
endpoints to interact with our database.
Our database has is get users,
update user and delete user somewhere.
Yeah, dual user.
And these endpoints, just protect those,
make sure you're authenticated,
all that kind of thing.
And it uses the request object and
response object to communicate as
middleware as it does in Extract.
So we're gonna write some test for this.
Most of these functions are exposed.
And these are still
technically unit tests.
Each one of these functions
is considered a unit.
[COUGH] Yeah,
to get this started, I think,
the first thing that I want to test is,
generally,
when I'm starting testing in a new module,
it's never been tested before.
Especially in a new project, you want
to go to the path of least resistance,
make it as simple as possible.
And if I'm looking at all of these,
I'm thinking the simplest function
as maybe this authorize function.
Actually, yeah,
that probably is the simplest function.
But we're not going to do that one,
cuz I want to show you
the get users one instead.
But I would probably start with
the authorize, if I'm perfectly honest.
But yeah, we'll do get users.
And so, what's the use case we want to
verify when testing this, a function.
We wanna verify that based off of the,
actually,
it doesn't even use
the request object anyways.
So based off of the fact that it's
given a request and response,
the request can be anything.
The response will need to be
called with .json called with all
of the users that are in the database.
But those should be safe users,
these users to .json which
you wrote tasks for earlier.
And then, if there are no users in
the database, then we'll send a 404.
So let's go ahead and
we'll do a happy path test first.
So we'll test that get users
returns all users in the database.
And then,
this is going to be an async test.
So this is an async function,
where you want to be able to use
a rate because it is the best.
So we'll add a sync to our function
declaration here or to our error
function there, so we can use a wait
when we call this get users thing, okay?
So to call get users,
we're going to need to get it.
So import, get users.
Here, we'll just input everything
that has users controller.
From one directory op users.
And then,
we'll say await usersController.getUsers,
and it's gonna take a request and
a response.
And then, we'll create our
fake version of those things,
kind of injecting those arguments here.
The request doesn't really
need to have anything, but
the response needs to have a json function
and we can make that a jest function.
So response, json function.
It also needs a status but
in our tense we don't have it,
it's not going to be calling status, so
we can leave that off for now, cool.
So we expect it had been called one time,
so it's around this testing and
around mpm test, and we'll do controllers,
star, users.todo.js,
something like that.
>> Speaker 1: Okay,
cool, so that test passes and
we can say it was called zero times, okay,
yeah, it's gonna fail, it was called once.
So there are a couple of
quick things about this,
with regard to this mock
function that we've created.
There's another assertion here that is
toHaveBeenCalled, and that will work also.
The reason that I am explicit
about how many times it was
called is because perhaps
somebody comes in and
has a little typo and
duplicates this, or something.
And now, this will actually fail my test.
But it would not fail if it
were just two of them called.
So I want to be explicit about how
many times this thing responds,
to avoid situations like that, so
I definitely recommend doing it.
Being explicit about that.
And then we also want to verify
what it was called with, so
we can console.log(res.json.mock.calls)
the first call.
And [COUGH] looks like there are no users.
So it's an empty users array and
in fact that looks like there's a value.
That should probably be the (users &&
users.length) or something like that.
But yeah, in any case,
we'll stick with this.
So the problem is that our database
in our test has not been initialized.
So there are a couple of
ways that we can solve this.
Right now,
this is actually not a pure unit test, so
from the purest standpoint, a unit test
is one that mocks all dependencies and
only tests the things that
are within the module.
And so, if we were to make a pure unit
test, we would provide a mock for
utils off, and mock for utils database,
so that it's focused on this unit.
So sometimes,
if your like unit test pure is say no,
no, mock everything.
Otherwise, it's not a unit test
you're writing an integration test.
Well, I actually don't
care what you call it.
It's an integration test,
unit test, I don't care.
What I care about is confidence that
I'm getting out of my test, and
if I were to mock all these things.
And then, I would have to write additional
test to get that confidence back that
things are working together properly.
So I'll just continue
working with these things and
I can maybe just initialize this
database to have some users.
And so, I'm not gonna show you
how all of that magic works,
because it's not really
relevant to this workshop.
You can go check out the code for
it later.
But suffice it to say that we do have
a utilities module that we can import.
So we import initDb from Today I learned,
server-test-utils.
You can actually find that it's
in the projects, server_test.
So you can find that if you want
to see what that's actually doing.
So before every single one of my tests,
I want it to initialize the database
that is an asynchronous,
so I'll wait that, and then with that,
I actually get a list of users.
So this init process
generates some random users.
Every single time, they're totally random,
totally different.
And that's generally what I would
recommend is, in some scenarios,
if you've got a real database, this can
actually really slow down your tests.
And so, you really have to kind
of weigh the trade offs here
because this will bring you
a fair bit more confidence.
You can make sure that each test is
running in total isolation from another.
And if the database is totally
messed up in this test,
then you just call initDb again,
and everything's clean again.
And a real application where
the database is big and
there's a lot of data and
that takes a long time.
Then an alternative to this would
be before all of the tests are run,
let's just initialize
it with some fake data.
And hopefully, you can have fixtures
that all the tests shared, so
that you know what should be in
the database at any given time.
And then every test just
cleans up after itself.
So you have to weigh
the consequences either way.
But, yeah, for
our cases the optimal would be to just
totally wipe it clean for every test.
If that's something that you can do.